{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green128\blue0;\red255\green128\blue128;\red255\green255\blue255;\red221\green221\blue221;\red128\green255\blue128;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\cf1\b\fs20 Roids\par
\cf2 Version \cf3\b0 : 1.0.0\par
\cf2\b Date \cf3\b0 : September 11, 2016\par
\cf2\b Author \cf3\b0 : Roger D. Linhart.\par
\par
\cf1\b Description\cf3\b0\par
The goal of this exercise is to achieve a high score by destroying Roids!\par
\par
You have been supplied with three ships. Each ship can rotate left and right and thrust in the direction it is pointed. Station keeping thrusters will slowly reduce its speed, eventually bringing it to a full stop.\par
\par
Each ship is equipped with a main gun that fires a bullet in the same direction the ship faces. The main gun has an unlimited supply of bullets but your ship's tracking computer will limit the number of bullets you can fire. The tracking computer uses the bullet self-destruct mechanism to limit their range. This reduces the tracking computer power requirements and keeps you from taking one of your own up the tailpipe.\par
\par
Striking a Roid with a bullet or, while not recommended, with your ship, results in the destruction of both and increases your score. Larger Roids are less challenging to strike and grant a smaller reward. Striking a Roid breaks it into two smaller Roids. Eventually a Roid becomes so small it is completely vaporized.\par
\par
When all the Roids are destroyed you'll be warped to the next sector. Upon disengaging the warp drive the ship experiences momentarily invulnerability. This effect quickly dissipates as the warp field collapses and the ship transitions back to normal space. During this time you should manuever the ship to a clear area to prevent a reentry collision. You'll notice each sector begins with more Roids than its predecessor. \par
\par
If a ship is destroyed and you have exhausted your supply of ships the game is over. Otherwise another ship will warp to the predecessor's location. \par
\cf1\b\par
Rooms\par
\cf2 rmGame\cf4\b0  : Roid Game.\par
\tab\cf2\b Objects \cf4\b0 : \cf2\b obj_MCP\cf4\b0\par
\par
\cf1\b Sprites\cf5\par
\cf2 sprLife \cf4\b0 : Life Counter Display.\par
\cf2\b sprPlayerEngineOff \cf4\b0 : Player Engine Off Loop.\par
\cf2\b sprPlayerEngineOn \cf4\b0 : Player Engine On Loop.\par
\cf2\b sprPlayerExplosion \cf4\b0 : Player Explosion Animation.\par
\cf2\b sprPlayerShield \cf4\b0 : Player Shield.\par
\cf2\b sprBullet \cf4\b0 : Main Gun Bullet.\par
\cf2\b sprRoidBig \cf4\b0 : Big Roid.\par
\cf2\b sprRoidMed \cf4\b0 : Medium Roid.\par
\cf2\b sprRoidSml \cf4\b0 : Small Roid.\par
\par
\cf1\b Sounds\cf4\b0\par
\cf2\b sndEngineLoop \cf4\b0 : Player Ship Engine On Loop.\par
\cf2\b sndBulletFire \cf4\b0 : Player Ship Main Gun Bullet Firing.\par
\cf2\b sndRoidBig \cf4\b0 : Big Asteroid Explosion.\par
\cf2\b sndRoidMed \cf4\b0 : Medium Asteroid Explosion.\par
\cf2\b sndRoidSml \cf4\b0 : Small Asteroid Explosion.\par
\par
\cf1\b Fonts\cf4\b0\par
\cf2\b fntBig \cf4\b0 : Player Score Display.\par
\cf2\b fntSml \cf4\b0 : High Score and Player Name Display.\par
\par
\cf1\b Objects\par
\cf6 objMCP \cf4\b0 : Master Control Program (MCO (Master Control Object) just doesn't have the same zip to it).\par
 \tab\cf2\b global.strPlayerName \cf4\b0 : Player Name.\par
 \tab\cf2\b global.intGameLevel \cf4\b0 : Game Level. Determines number of Asteroids Spawned at the start of Game Level.\par
 \tab\cf2\b Create \cf4\b0 : Read Constants from INI File. Set Alarm and User Event Names. Create Displays.\par
 \tab\cf2\b Game Start \cf4\b0 : Reset Game Level. Create Player.\par
\tab\cf2\b No More Lives \cf4\b0 : Check High Score and Create Game Over Display.\par
\tab\cf2\b press Q-key \cf4\b0 : End Game.\par
\tab\cf2\b press R-key \cf4\b0 : Restart Game.\par
\par
\cf6\b objScore \cf4\b0 : Player Score Display. Uses GM Score Actions.\par
\tab\cf2\b Font \cf4\b0 : \cf2\b fntBig\cf4\b0 .\par
\tab\cf2\b Depth \cf4\b0 : 10.\par
\tab\cf2\b Game Start \cf4\b0 : Reset Score.\par
\tab\cf2\b Draw \cf4\b0 : Display Score.\par
\par
\cf6\b objNumShips \cf4\b0 : Player Number of Ships Display. Uses GM Life Actions.\par
\tab\cf2\b Sprite \cf4\b0 : \cf2\b sprLife\cf4\b0 .\par
\tab\cf2\b Depth \cf4\b0 : 10.\par
\tab\cf2\b Create \cf4\b0 : Read Constants from INI File.\par
\tab\cf2\b Game Start \cf4\b0 : Reset Number of Ships (Lives).\par
\tab\cf2\b Draw \cf4\b0 : Draw Number of Ships (Lives) as image.\par
\par
\cf6\b objHighScore \cf4\b0 : High Score and Name Display. Uses GM HighScore Actions.\par
\tab\cf2\b Font \cf4\b0 : \cf2\b fntSml\cf4\b0 .\par
\tab\cf2\b Depth \cf4\b0 : 10.\par
\tab\cf2\b Draw \cf4\b0 : Display Player High Score and Name.\par
\par
\cf6\b objGameOver \cf4\b0 : Game Over Display.\par
\tab\cf2\b Font \cf4\b0 : \cf2\b fntBig\cf4\b0 .\par
\tab\cf2\b Depth \cf4\b0 : 10\par
\tab\cf2\b Draw \cf4\b0 : Display Game Over.\par
\par
\cf6\b objPlayer \cf4\b0 : Player's Ship.\par
  Sprite : sprShipEngineOff.\par
  Depth : 0.\par
  Create : Set Ship Engine Off Sprite and Animation Speed. Set Ship Constants. Create Main Gun.\par
  Destroy : Lose Life. \par
  Collision Asteroid : \par
  <Left> : Rotate Ship CCW.\par
  <Up> : Apply Engine Thrust.\par
  <Right> : Rotate Ship CW.\par
  Outside Room : Wrap in both directions.\par
  Press <Up> : Set Engine On Sprite and Start Engine Sound.\par
  Release <Up> : Set Engine Off Sprite and Stop Engine Sound.\par
\par
\cf2\b objMainGun \cf4\b0 : Player Ship Main Gun.\par
  Create : Set Main Gun Constants and Bullet Loaded.\par
  Alarm 0 : If Bullets Left, Set Bullet Loaded, otherwise Set 1 in Alarm 0 (wait for Bullet to Expire).\par
  <Space> : If Bullet Loaded, Create Bullet, Play Gun Fire Sound, Clear Bullet Loaded and Set Reload Delay \par
    Count in Alarm 0.\par
\par
\cf2\b objBullet \cf4\b0 : Main Gun Bullet.\par
  Sprite : sprBullet.\par
  Depth : 0.\par
  Create : Set Bullet Direction from Ship Direction and Speed. Set Bullet Constants. Set Bullet Distance \par
    in Alarm 1.\par
  Alarm 1 : Destroy the instance (Expire Bullet).\par
  Collision Asteroid : Destroy Bullet and Asteroid.\par
  Outside Room : Wrap in both directions.\par
\par
\cf2\b objRoid \cf4\b0 : Asteroid Parent.\par
  Create : Set Roid Constants. Pick Random Roid Image, Direction, Speed and Image Angle.\par
  Destroy : Add Roid Score (from child Roid).\par
  Outside Room : Wrap in both directions.\par
\par
\cf2\b objRoidBig \cf4\b0 : Big Asteroid.\par
  Sprite : sprRoidBig.\par
  Depth : 4.\par
  Parent : objRoid.\par
  Create : Call the inherited event. Set Big Asteroid Score.\par
  Destroy : Call the inherited event. Play Big Asteroid Sound. Spawn 2x Medium Asteroids.\par
\par
\cf2\b objRoidMed \cf4\b0 : Medium Asteroid.\par
  Sprite : sprRoidMed.\par
  Depth : 6.\par
  Parent : objRoid.\par
  Create : Call the inherited event. Set Medium Asteroid Score.\par
  Destroy : Call the inherited event. Play Medium Asteroid Sound. Spawn 2x Small Asteroids.\par
\par
\cf2\b objRoidSml \cf4\b0 : Small Asteroid.\par
  Sprite : sprRoidSml.\par
  Depth : 8.\par
  Parent : objRoid.\par
  Create : Call the inherited event. Set Small Asteroid Score.\par
  Destroy : Call the inherited event. Play Small Asteroid Sound.\par
\par
\cf1\b Alarms\par
\cf2 Alarm 0 \cf4\b0 : Main Gun Reload Delay (objMainGun)\par
\cf2\b Alarm 1 \cf4\b0 : Bullet Distance (objBullet)\par
\cf2\b Alarm 2 \cf4\b0 : Level Respawn Delay (objMCP)\par
\cf2\b Alarm 3 \cf4\b0 : Ship Respawn Delay (objShipExplode)\par
\par
\cf1\b User Events\cf4\b0\par
\par
\cf1\b Misc\par
\cf2 alrm \cf4\b0 : Alarm Name.\par
\cf2\b bg \cf4\b0 : Background Resource.\par
\cf2\b bool \cf4\b0 : Boolean Variable. Use true or false values. 32 bit floating point. \par
\cf2\b dec \cf4\b0 : Decrement (decrease by 1).\par
\cf2\b deeg \cf4\b0 : In GameMaker 0 degrees is East, 90 degrees is North, 180 degrees is West and 270 degrees is South.\par
\cf2\b depth \cf4\b0 : lower numbers are closer to the player and are drawn on top of higher numbers which are farther away.\par
\cf2\b e\cf4\b0  : Enumerated List of Constants.\par
\cf2\b fnt \cf4\b0 : Font Resource.\par
\cf2\b inc \cf4\b0 : Increment (increase by 1).\par
\cf2\b int \cf4\b0 : Integer Variable. 32 bit floating point.\par
\cf2\b obj \cf4\b0 : Object.\par
\cf2\b flt \cf4\b0 : Real Variable. 32 bit floating point.\par
\cf2\b rm \cf4\b0 : Room.\par
\cf2\b snd \cf4\b0 : Sound Resource.\par
\cf2\b spr \cf4\b0 : Sprite Resource.\par
\cf2\b step \cf4\b0 : Engine Processing Interval.\par
\cf2\b str \cf4\b0 : String Variable.\par
\cf2\b uev \cf4\b0 : User Event Name.\par
\par
Important constants are typically defined in an objects Create event. Some constants can be changed by creating an entry in a config.ini file. Windows users will find the file in %localappdata%\\Roids. The object name is used for the config.ini file section name and the variable name is the key. For example, to display the game in Windowed mode:\par
[objMCP]\par
intFullScreen="0"\par
\par
\cf1\b Issues\cf4\b0\par
\par
}
 